So welcome to Using Any Actor
for Waypoints! What we're going to do in this video is get our guys,
Steve and Harry we're going to call them, moving at least to their first waypoints, there and there.
But we're also going to make it possible to specify waypoints that are not just
target points but include cubes, like this EditorCube21. This cube
here has now become part of Steve's patrol route. So I will see you in there!
OK, so currently these guys are running between two
predefined points, as defined in the blueprint hard coded in,
and what we want them to do is start going to at least their first waypoints. I believe
this guy goes to TargetPoint, as his first one, and this
guy over here, on the right, goes to...
In fact, why don't I give these guys names! I can't very call them this and this guy, let's give them some
names. So ThirdPerson, no no no let's not call him that! Let's F2,
call him Guard 1 -
Steve, and the other guy can be called Guard 2 -
Harry. OK,
[Laughs] so we've got a couple of guards in the world, Steve and Harry. So Steve is going to go
upstairs and Harry's going to go over here. O.K. so how do we arrange
that? Well let's just take a bit of a zoom out and a bit of a recap as to what all this is about,
alright. So we have this Behavior Tree, let's watch it running! If you hit play
and go to the Behavior Tree, firstly, notice that you've got to decide which Behavior Tree
you're looking at. Are you looking at Steve's AI Controller or Harry's AI
Controller? Each of them have a different brain in the world, and they're
classily named C_1 and C_0. So you can
switch between them, and then, for each one you can see where they are, what point they're currently moving to.
And at the same way, you can go to the blackboard and see what the data is for each of them
as well. In fact, you can see which guards, they are. SelfActor here is Steve and
SelfActor here is Harry. Great! Alright, so they're just patrolling
between those two points. Now what we want is, rather than these points to be hard coded
in, we want these points to be variable, based on their array.
So actually, you're just going to delete these keys from the blackboard now bravely, both of
those, we don't need them. And we're going to create a new key, but instead of making it a vector, why don't
we just make it an object, more generally, and then, we can send the actor
not only to vector points but to the position of an object. Let's just see that that works!
So I'm just going to call it Waypoint, as simple as that,
and that's it really, that's all we have to do, it's just the waypoint that this guy is heading
towards right now. OK, back in the Behavior Tree! What are we
going to get them to do? I said the job was just to get them to go to their first waypoint,
so let's Move To, and then, with the Blackboard Key is going to need to be
Waypoint. Now, why doesn't that Blackboard Key come up? Good question, let's just
save and see if it does now, and if it doesn't, I'm going to close and reopen the Behavior
Tree, because we should be able to go to Waypoint.
If you can't, then that's because we need to specialize the Key Type. So come in here
and rather than it being an Object, it can be an Actor. Object is
just too general for us to be specifying the position of. An Object
doesn't have a position, an Actor is the most basic thing that has a position in the
world. So get back to your Blackboard, expand out the Key Type, and make it
an Actor! If you now go back to your Behavior Tree, you should
be able to now say Move To Waypoint. OK,
so it's important that it's not just an object but it's an actor. So now that we've made the
actual Blackboard item, more generally, an Actor
rather than necessarily a particular vector, let's go look at the Third
PersonCharacter blueprint. Remember we made an array of patrol points.
Well these can be made, rather than target points,
they could also just be made to be actors. Now, you may
fear you'll lose your data, in this case, you actually won't lose your data. The reason
why you don't lose your settings... Firstly, let's just check we haven't lost our settings.
If we click on Steve here and look at his Patrol Points, you'll see they're still
there, but now, we can actually select not only Target
Points but any actor, which is more general and more powerful. Now the reason we don't
lose the existing Control Points is, if you look at the Class
Viewer and you look at what a Target Point is. It is an
Actor, so going from a Target Point up to an Actor is absolutely fine, because
it's of the same type. Target Point inherits from Actor.
OK cool! So now what we can do is just
another handy little thing I want to show you here! If we were to click on say Steve,
click the little lock symbol in the Details Panel there. And what that'll do is,
when I select other objects now it'll still be Steve's details that show.
Now, what I can do is, imagine I wanted him to patrol to this cube and I don't necessarily
want to have to put another target point in the scene. Generally, by the way, it's probably a better
bet just to put another target point in the scene. Why? Because it decouples
the idea of where this guy's navigating from where these things are. Imagine you or a level
designer come along later and move the cube, you may or may not want the
guard to go with it, so you need to just discuss with everybody involved.
But let's just imagine that we do want his waypoint to track any future
movements of that cube. Then, this little trick of having him selected, selecting the cube,
clicking +, and then, saying Use Select, at the
top there, will add this cube to
the mix. So we'll do that just for fun! So we've made things more general.
Now, what we want these guys to do is go to their first waypoint. So where
do we even set that up? Well this is asset binding, isn't it?
Remember whenever we want to soft reference things we use Blueprint. Who's blueprint?
Who's job is it to pick the piece of paper out of this actor's pocket, this Third
PersonCharacter's pocket, and read it? That's my question for you.
Is it the job of the ThirdPersonCharacter, or is it the job of the
AI Controller, when he turns up on the character and possesses it?
Well I would say it's the job of the AI Controller! When he
walks up and takes control of this character, it's his job to take the piece
of paper out of the pocket and start setting these Blackboard values. So we're going to no longer
set these Blackboard keys hard like this, and we're just going to do a bit of top
down programming. Sure we're going to use a Blackboard and at the end of the day, we're going to run a
Behavior Tree, but in between what are we going to do? Well I'm going to put a comment block here,
and I'm going to say, we are going to "Find
Patrol Route", basically. That's what we need to do in the middle.
So our job now is to work out how we're going to find the Patrol Route,
and at least for now, we're going to find the very first element of that
Patrol Route. So I'm going to get rid of the tick, and I'm going to start
on that and then challenge you to finish it. So we're going to get the Controlled
Pawn, this is the first thing. So the AI Controller has
possessed the Pawn, we need to get it. Now, from that, can we get the Patrol Points?
Well no we can't, because Pawns, in general, don't have Patrol Points, but the
ThirdPersonCharacter that we've created does. So we do need to do a cast to a
ThirdPersonCharacter. Is that nice? It's not great but it's OK. It's
OK because basically, the AI Controller only really works with a ThirdPersonController
anyway. We already have a tight coupling in there. So once we have a
ThirdPersonCharacter, we can now go get the Patrol Route
OK or the Patrol Point, and that is an array of, now, Actors
or Actor references. It used to be an
array of Target Points, but we've made that more general. Now what
I want you to do, at least for now, is to find
"First Element
only For Now". What I want you to do in here then,
is... Let's be consistent on the capitalization. ...is to
get this array, find just the first element of it, set the irrelevant
key on the Blackboard,  you've got the Blackboard here. Set
that Waypoint Key, and then, see if both of our players will actually go
to their first Waypoints.
OK welcome back! So let's get
this done! We will extract this behavior out into a function, in a little bit, but for
now, let's just get it working. So you come off of the Patrol Points Array; under
Utilities in Array, you have a Get. Now, you might be asking
why we're doing this in Blueprint rather than in C++. Just for simplicity, for now, we will
decide when we finish refactoring in Blueprint if it's worth moving it to C++.
So here is element 0 and it is an Actor. So the next thing we're going to need
is the Blackboard, and then, we're going to need to Set Value
as Object. Remember we're using objects now. So the execution
flow comes through, we have BeginPlay, use Blackboard, we find
the Blackboard. We need to decide on what key, so let's generate the key
name now. The name, literally, is going to be Waypoint,
but I'm not going to type it, I'm going to copy and paste it with any string referencing.
And then it says, well OK that's very well, what do you want
to set my Waypoint Key to?
Well I want to set it to the value of the first Patrol Point.
OK that's cool! Now comes the question, when are
we going to even cast to ThirdPersonCharacter? It's all very well having that
there, but there's no execution flow, so I think that we need to do that before
we try and set the value. So I'm moving everything across to the right, I'm going to bring execution
flow into here, and then from here, assuming the class succeeds all the way
up there. We could bring that up, leave it down, it doesn't really matter. We're going to extract some of this into a
function, in a minute, as soon as we know it works. And then, once that's
done, we just go ahead and run the Behavior Tree! So that is my code, the
Blueprint code that I've added in there. Let's go ahead and see if it works! Do both of these
guys go to their first point? Ah hah, they do! There's Harry there going
to his point and Steve at the top of the stairs. That's fantastic! So well done if you
got that far! What I think I'm going to do now is just take all of this stuff here,
including the Get Controlled Pawn, everything apart from
this Blackboard, actually, so all of this, but not get Blackboard. The way I'm
unselecting get Blackboard is by holding the Control Key down, and all of this, we
can say Collapse to Function. And we can name that function, look on the left-hand
side, it's waiting, it's going to be Find Patrol
Route. We don't need the comment anymore, because that was our
way of doing top down coding in Blueprint. You drag that across, tighten
it all up, and then, look how tight and tidy the blueprint is. I'll even close the Details Tab so
you can see it. On BeginPlay we use the Blackboard, find a Patrol Route, and run
the Behavior Tree. [Laughs] Very simple! OK there's some hidden complexity in here,
under Find Patrol Route, so let's go tidy that up a little bit. That one's still
looks nice and simple as well. So when we start Find Patrol Route,
we go ahead, we get the Control Pawn that the AI's controlling down
here, we pull off the list of Patrol Points,
we get index 0, later we'll iterate through them,
and if I bring these two down I can prevent any... Oops, I can
prevent any crosses, if I can get it right, I can bring those down,
I can put the literal name in here, bring these guys back up,
and I can keep it nice and tidy, I don't have to go absolutely mad,
and then, it's relatively clear what this is doing. It gets the Control Point,
Pawn cast to a ThirdPersonCharacter. Notice this line here, this Selft 2 line.
Firstly, it shouldn't be called Self 2, so let's rename that here. How do we
rename it? Well we're going to need the Details Panel back, and we can either
do it here, at this level, or we could zoom out to the other level. And instead of Self 2,
we're asking the question, what is this? Let's go up a level! What is
Self 2? It's Blackboard! So I will rename it here because it's easier. Click on it
and rename it Blackboard.
So if we look back in here, what do we have coming in? We have a Blackboard object coming
in. Now, I don't like the way these are crossed
over, so I'm going to lift that up so I can see that these are separate objects. And if you don't
like things crossing, you can go nuts and start doing all this sort of stuff, but some
way, you're going to end up with a cross if you're not careful. So I wouldn't worry about it too
much, but certainly, don't obfuscate the fact that two lines are doing different
things. So perhaps the best way to lay this out is something like this! That cross doesn't
really matter, at least the two blue lines don't get confused, and then, we can bring all
this stuff sort of up here and whatever.
At this point, you can go mad on the blueprints here! You can start putting
reroute nodes in, by the way, if you want to, but I think that that
might be going too far. If you want to do that, you right-click, Add
Reroute Node, and you can use that
Reroute Node to pass execution flow through. I don't like them, because they
make it a little bit harder to adjust the blueprint later, but it can tidy things up, if you're worried about
how they look. So that's the detail in there, we zoom up to the bigger level, you've
got this, and hopefully it's clear what's going on there. I'm just going to compile, play,
make sure they go to their initial Patrol Routes, and we are done!